You don't need permission to work on anything, but it's always best to let others know what you're planning to do. You can do this by:

- Commenting on an [issue or PR in GitHub](https://github.com/mistakia/nano-community/issues)
- Messaging on the [Nano Discord server](https://chat.nano.org/)
- Starting a [discussion](https://github.com/mistakia/nano-community/discussions)

Make sure you're familiar with <a href="https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/index.html" tagret="_blank">GitHub Flow</a>.

### Contributing content

All you need is a GitHub account to contribute. Every page is a MarkDown file, which is an <a href="https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/" target="_blank">easy to learn syntax</a>.

#### Submitting Edits

- Use the "edit page" button on the site to navigate to the document on the github repository
- Make sure to sign in or create a GitHub account
- Once logged in, start editing by clicking the "edit file" icon in the top right
- Make changes, then click "propose changes". On the next page click "Create Pull Request" to submit.

#### Responding to Change Requests

Occasionally, changes will be requested for proposed changes. Navigate to your pull request to respond with any questions or comments. To make changes, navigate to the branch you used on your fork, make changes and commit them. The pull request will then be automatically updated with those changes.

#### Recommendations

1. [Write simply](http://www.paulgraham.com/simply.html)
1. Keep content for users concise, while detailed for developers
1. When possible, direct users to existing content on the [official Nano documentation](https://docs.nano.org/)
1. Use an impartial tone and neutral point of view. Content should be as objective as possible.
1. Pull requests are preferred to issues, especially for small changes such as typos.
1. Issues should be used for reporting bugs, typos, or asking specific questions
1. Discussions should be used for high-level changes or broad questions
1. Smaller pull requests are preferred over a single large one.
1. Limit mentioning or using content that changes over time, to prevent content from going stale and needing updates
1. Prefer opening an issue vs. sending a DM
1. If you find documentation missing, treat it as a bug. Once you get your answer, contribute it so that it benefits others

### Contributing code

JavaScript & markdown are used to make the project as accessible as possible.

```
|-- api         node.js api server for posts, network stats
|-- build       static html react entry points generated by react-snap
|-- db          schema for mysql
|-- docs        community markdown documents
|-- scripts     data aggregation or processing
|-- server      server configs
|-- src         single page react app (deployed to IPFS)
`-- labels      label documents
```

#### Set up your local environment

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

2. Clone your fork

```
git clone git@github.com:[your_github_handle]/nano-community.git && cd nano-community
```

3. Add upstream remote

```
git remote add upstream https://github.com/mistakia/nano-community.git
```

To sync your fork with the latest changes

```
git checkout main
git fetch upstream
git merge upstream/main
```

4. Install dependencies

```
yarn install
```

#### Start contributing

1. Create a new branch for your changes

```
git checkout -b new_feature_name
```

2. Start developing

```
yarn dev
```

3. Before committing your changes, make sure to run prettier, lint, and build.

```
yarn prettier
yarn lint
yarn build
```

## Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
have the right to submit it under the open source license
indicated in the file; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
license and I have the right under that license to submit that
work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
in the file; or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
this project or the open source license(s) involved.
